TF-440: Terraform Enterprise Demo Installation Mode Removal (#2234)
hashicorp/terraform-website: content/enterprise/admin/infrastructure/demo-to-disk-migration.mdx

---

> page_title: Demo to Mounted Disk Migration - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise

Reviewer: Can you add page metadata description here, too? 150 characters that could show up as the google search snippet!  There's an example of one in the markdown of this page: https://www.terraform.io/intro

Author: Added!

---

# Migrating from Demo Mode to Mounted Disk Mode

> The demo operational mode was removed in Terraform Enterprise v202204-1 in favor of the mounted disk operational mode. If you are currently running demo mode and wish to upgrade to Terraform Enterprise v202204-1, you will need to migrate your application data from the demo mode Docker volumes to the mounted disk directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform Enterprise removed Demo operational mode in v202204-1. We strongly recommend upgrading your instance from Demo mode to Mounted Disk mode. 

If you are currently running Demo mode and wish to upgrade to Terraform Enterprise v202204-1, you must migrate your application data from the Demo mode Docker volumes to the Mounted Disk directory.
```

## Migrating Application Data From Demo Mode to Mounted Disk Mode

1. Connect to your Terraform Enterprise instance.

> 1. Create the mounted disk directory. You can choose any directory you'd like.
> However, it is expected that this directory is backed by persistent storage
> that can be mounted to the instance. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the Mounted Disk directory. You can choose any directory, but Terraform Enterprise expects that the directory is backed by persistent storage that can be mounted to the instance. 
```

  ```bash
  mkdir -p /opt/terraform-enterprise
  ```

1. Set the `disk_path` application setting to the mounted disk directory.

  ```bash
  replicatedctl app-config set disk_path --value '/opt/terraform-enterprise'
  ```

1. Migrate the PostgreSQL data to the mounted disk directory.

>   ```bash

Reviewer: just checking - a user could theoretically copy and paste these into their terminal and run them all at once, right? ir not, I wonder if we should separate them into their own separate steps.

Author: Yep! They can copy and paste the entire thing. I wrote it that way because I knew that's what people would try to do.

  # Create the `postgres` directory under the mounted disk directory.
  mkdir -p /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres

  # Retrieve the PostgreSQL data path from the Docker volume.
  demo_database="$(docker volume inspect postgres --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}')"

  # Migrate the PostgreSQL data to the mounted disk directory.
  cp -r "${demo_database}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres

  # Mark the PostgreSQL data as migrated.
  touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres/.poc-to-disk-migrated
  ```

> 1. Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.

Reviewer: Ah, we do it again here. I do wonder if these should be substeps under the larger step rather than a list of commands inside the same code block - thoughts?

Author: I'm hit or miss on substeps. People tend to lose themselves a bit when scanning substeps. Especially when they are similar to other substeps under a different parent step. I can be swayed either way though.

Reviewer: that's fair - if folks can literally just pop all of this in and run it, I'm good with it being in one block

Author: Moved to nested ordered lists.

  ```bash
  # Create the `aux` directory under the mounted disk directory.
  mkdir -p /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux

  # Retrieve the object storage data path from the Docker volume.
  demo_object_storage="$(docker volume inspect aux --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}')"

  # Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.
  cp -r "${demo_object_storage}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux

  # Mark the object storage data as migrated.
  touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux/.poc-to-disk-migrated
  ```

> 1. Restart Terraform Enterprise.

Reviewer: Can we give users a sense of what they'll see? Will anything be different? Even just a sentence about what they should do next?

Author: Done!

> ## Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

Reviewer: I like that you included this info! But I'm wondering if there is a way to pull it out of FAQ and instead make it separate H2s on the page. The reason why is that when we eventually have devdot portal, all H2s will be shown in a permanent sidebar that will help users easily jump to the content they want. 

I wonder if Just under the intro, we could have a section called "Determining TFE Operational Mode" or something like that (that's not great but you know what I mean) and then is there a way we could turn the second FAQ into a heading? Maybe we could use the heading to emphasize that users really are required to migrate their data before upgrading. "Data Migration is Required" 

let me know if you hate this - I just think FAQ can sometimes hide good information a level deeper than it needs to be.

Author: I don't hate it. I put this in FAQs because I really didn't have another place for it and I wanted the information to be there just in case. Lemme play around with it and push a new commit.

### How do I check if I'm running demo mode?

Connect to your Terraform Enterprise instance and run the following command.

```sh
replicatedctl app-config export --template '{{ .installation_type.Value }}'
```

If you see the value `poc` that means you are running demo mode and you'll need
to migrate your application data to the mounted disk directory.

### What happens if I upgrade to Terraform Enterprise v202204-1 without migrating my application data?

Terraform Enterprise will fail to start with the following error until you
migrate your application data.

```
Unmet start requirement: Required setting "Mounted Disk Path" is not set.
```

If you run `replicatedctl app status`, you will see output similar to the
following.

```json
[
    {
        "AppID": "f9486004126d40904381e029d76353d0",
        "Sequence": 609,
        "PatchSequence": 0,
        "State": "stopped",
        "DesiredState": "started",
        "Error": "Unmet start requirement: Required setting \"Mounted Disk Path\" is not set.",
        "IsCancellable": false,
        "IsTransitioning": false,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2022-04-11T21:02:18.613686589Z"
    }
]
```

> If you view the Replicated console, you'll see the following page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Replicated console shows the following page.
```

        ```

    1. Migrate the PostgreSQL data to the mounted disk directory.

        ```bash
        cp -r "${demo_database}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres
        ```

    1. Mark the PostgreSQL data as migrated.
        ```bash
        touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres/.poc-to-disk-migrated
        ```

1. Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.

    1. Create the `aux` directory under the mounted disk directory.

        ```bash
        mkdir -p /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux
        ```

    1. Retrieve the object storage data path from the Docker volume.

        ```bash
        demo_object_storage="$(docker volume inspect aux --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}')"
        ```

    1. Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.

        ```bash
        cp -r "${demo_object_storage}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux
        ```

    1. Mark the object storage data as migrated.

        ```bash
        touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux/.poc-to-disk-migrated
        ```

1. Restart Terraform Enterprise to apply the changes and start the application

> in _Mounted Disk_ mode.

Reviewer 2: These instructions are great, @sudomateo ! Very easy to understand. Do you think it'd be helpful to add the commands to restart here?

Author: Done!

---
page_title: Demo to Mounted Disk Migration - Infrastructure Administration - Terraform Enterprise
description: >-

>   Learn how to migrate Terraform Enterprise from _Demo_ mode to _Mounted Disk_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Learn how to migrate Terraform Enterprise from Demo mode to Mounted Disk
```

  mode.
---

# Migrating from Demo Mode to Mounted Disk Mode

> Terraform Enterprise removed the _Demo_ operational mode in v202204-1. We
> strongly recommend upgrading your instance from _Demo_ mode to _Mounted Disk_
> mode.
> 
> If you are currently running Demo mode and wish to upgrade to Terraform
> Enterprise v202204-1, you must migrate your application data from the _Demo_
> mode Docker volumes to the _Mounted Disk_ directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Terraform Enterprise removed the Demo operational mode in v202204-1. We
strongly recommend upgrading your instance from Demo mode to Mounted Disk
mode.

If you are currently running Demo mode and wish to upgrade to Terraform
Enterprise v202204-1, you must migrate your application data from the Demo
mode Docker volumes to the Mounted Disk directory.
```

> ## How do I check if I'm running demo mode?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Determining the Operational Mode
```

Connect to your Terraform Enterprise instance and run the following command.

```sh
replicatedctl app-config export --template '{{ .installation_type.Value }}'
```

> If you see the value `poc` that means you are running demo mode and you'll need
> to migrate your application data to the mounted disk directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Terraform Enterprise returns the value `poc`, you are running Demo mode and must migrate your application data to the mounted disk directory.
```

> ## What happens if I upgrade to Terraform Enterprise v202204-1 without migrating my application data?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Data Migration is Required 
```

Terraform Enterprise will fail to start with the following error until you
migrate your application data.

```
Unmet start requirement: Required setting "Mounted Disk Path" is not set.
```

If you run `replicatedctl app status`, you will see output similar to the
following.

```json
[
    {
        "AppID": "f9486004126d40904381e029d76353d0",
        "Sequence": 609,
        "PatchSequence": 0,
        "State": "stopped",
        "DesiredState": "started",
        "Error": "Unmet start requirement: Required setting \"Mounted Disk Path\" is not set.",
        "IsCancellable": false,
        "IsTransitioning": false,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2022-04-11T21:02:18.613686589Z"
    }
]
```

The Replicated console shows the following page.

![A screenshot showing the error message on the Replicated console.](/img/docs/demo-to-disk.png)

## Migrating Application Data From Demo Mode to Mounted Disk Mode

1. Connect to your Terraform Enterprise instance.

> 1. Create the Mounted Disk directory. You can choose any directory, but Terraform Enterprise expects that the directory is backed by persistent storage that can be mounted to the instance.

Reviewer: This is the only place we capitalize mounted disk. I feel like....I can't tell whether it should be or not. Are we referring to the mode name, or is mounted disk just a THING. If it's not referring to the mode name, I say no caps.

      ```

    1. Retrieve the PostgreSQL data path from the Docker volume.

      ```bash
      demo_database="$(docker volume inspect postgres --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}')"
      ```

    1. Migrate the PostgreSQL data to the mounted disk directory.

      ```bash
      cp -r "${demo_database}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres
      ```

    1. Mark the PostgreSQL data as migrated.

      ```bash
      touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/postgres/.poc-to-disk-migrated
      ```

1. Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.

    1. Create the `aux` directory under the mounted disk directory.

      ```bash
      mkdir -p /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux
      ```

    1. Retrieve the object storage data path from the Docker volume.

      ```bash
      demo_object_storage="$(docker volume inspect aux --format '{{ .Mountpoint }}')"
      ```

    1. Migrate the object storage data to the mounted disk directory.

      ```bash
      cp -r "${demo_object_storage}"/* /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux
      ```

    1. Mark the object storage data as migrated.

      ```bash
      touch /opt/terraform-enterprise/aux/.poc-to-disk-migrated
      ```

> 1. Restart Terraform Enterprise to apply the changes and start the application in _Mounted Disk_ mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Restart Terraform Enterprise to apply the changes and start the application in Mounted Disk mode.
```

    1. Stop Terraform Enterprise.

      ```bash
      replicatedctl app stop
      ```

>     1. Wait for Terraform Enterprise to stop.

Reviewer: Should we tell them what the status will be or is it like super duper obvious? I noticed you asked them to run this status command so I was thinking maybe we needed them to wait for something specific --> I guess even just for it to say "Stopped" but idk should we say that or tell them it takes a few minutes?

Author: The output would look like this:

```
[
    {
        "AppID": "8e22d0e4b96b448a5625b5a232132782",
        "Sequence": 609,
        "PatchSequence": 0,
        "State": "stopped",
        "DesiredState": "stopped",
        "Error": "",
        "IsCancellable": false,
        "IsTransitioning": false,
        "LastModifiedAt": "2022-04-18T19:46:12.924441325Z"
    }
]
```

I updated the line to this:

```
1. Wait for Terraform Enterprise to stop. Terraform Enterprise is stopped once the `State` shows `stopped`.
```

You can never be too verbose.
